README.md, before:

What
=====
An API gateway that you can install in your own server to do object, face and gender recognition.
Easy to extend to many/any other model. You can pass images as:
- a local file
- remote url

This can also be used as a remote face/recognition and object recognition server if you are using the ZoneMinder Event Server! (docs upcoming)

This is an example of invoking `python ./stream.py video.mp4` ([video courtesy of pexels](https://www.pexels.com/video/people-walking-by-on-a-sidewalk-854100/))

<img src="https://media.giphy.com/media/YQ4f1xXHMaDLF7AZMe/giphy.gif"/>


Why
=====
Wanted to learn how to write an API gateway easily. Object detection was a good use-case since I use it extensively for other things (like my event server). This is the first time I've used flask/jwt/tinydb etc. so its very likely there are improvements that can be made. Feel free to PR.

Tip of the Hat
===============
A tip of the hat to [Adrian Rosebrock](https://www.pyimagesearch.com/about/) to get me started. His articles are great.

Install
=======
- It's best to create a virtual environment with python3, but not mandatory 
- You need python3 for this to run
- face recognition requires cmake/gcc/standard linux dev libraries installed (if you have gcc, you likely have everything else. You may need to install cmake on top of it if you don't already have it)

Then:
```
 git clone https://github.com/pliablepixels/mlapi
 cd mlapi
 sudo -H pip3 install -r requirements.txt
 ```
Note: You may need other typical ml support libs. Forgot which. Feel free to PR and extend requirements.txt

Note that this package also needs OpenCV which is not installed by the above step by default. This is because you may have a GPU and may want to use GPU support. If not, pip is fine. See [this page](https://zmeventnotification.readthedocs.io/en/latest/guides/hooks.html#opencv-install) on how to install OpenCV


Running
========
To run the server:
```
python3 ./mlapi.py -c mlapiconfig.ini
```

To invoke detection, you need to:

Server Side:
- Make sure the username and password are created. Use `python3 mlapi_adduser.py` for that

Client Side:

(General note: I use [httpie](https://httpie.org) for command line http requests. Curl, while powerful has too many quirks/oddities. That being said, given curl is everywhere, examples are in curl. See later for a programmatic way)

- Get an access token
```
curl -H "Content-Type:application/json" -XPOST -d '{"username":"<user>", "password":"<password>"}' "http://localhost:5000/api/v1/login"
```
This will return a JSON object like:
```
{"access_token":"eyJ0eX<many more characters>","expires":3600}
```

Now use that token like so:

```
export ACCESS_TOKEN=<that access token>
```

Object detection for a remote image (via url):

```
curl -H "Content-Type:application/json" -H "Authorization: Bearer ${ACCESS_TOKEN}" -XPOST -d "{\"url\":\"https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/c/c4/Anna%27s_hummingbird.jpg\"}" http://localhost:5000/api/v1/detect/object
```
returns:

```
[{"type": "bird", "confidence": "99.98%", "box": [433, 466, 2441, 1660]}]
```

Object detection for a local image:
```
curl  -H "Authorization: Bearer ${ACCESS_TOKEN}" -XPOST -F"file=@IMG_1833.JPG" http://localhost:5000/api/v1/detect/object -v
```

returns:
```
[{"type": "person", "confidence": "99.77%", "box": [2034, 1076, 3030, 2344]}, {"type": "person", "confidence": "97.70%", "box": [463, 519, 1657, 1351]}, {"type": "cup", "confidence": "97.42%", "box": [1642, 978, 1780, 1198]}, {"type": "dining table", "confidence": "95.78%", "box": [636, 1088, 2370, 2262]}, {"type": "person", "confidence": "94.44%", "box": [22, 718, 640, 2292]}, {"type": "person", "confidence": "93.08%", "box": [408, 1002, 1254, 2016]}, {"type": "cup", "confidence": "92.57%", "box":[1918, 1272, 2110, 1518]}, {"type": "cup", "confidence": "90.04%", "box": [1384, 1768, 1564, 2044]}, {"type": "bowl", "confidence": "83.41%", "box": [882, 1760, 1134, 2024]}, {"type": "person", "confidence": "82.64%", "box": [2112, 984, 2508, 1946]}, {"type": "cup", "confidence": "50.14%", "box": [1854, 1520, 2072, 1752]}]
```

Face detection for the same image above:

```
curl  -H "Authorization: Bearer ${ACCESS_TOKEN}" -XPOST -F"file=@IMG_1833.JPG" "http://localhost:5000/api/v1/detect/object?type=face"
```

returns:

```
[{"type": "face", "confidence": "52.87%", "box": [904, 1037, 1199, 1337]}]
```

Object detection on a live Zoneminder feed:
(Note that ampersands have to be escaped as `%26` when passed as a data parameter)

```
curl -XPOST  "http://localhost:5000/api/v1/detect/object?delete=false" -d "url=https://demo.zoneminder.com/cgi-bin-zm/nph-zms?mode=single%26maxfps=5%26buffer=1000%26monitor=18%26user=zmuser%26pass=zmpass"
-H "Authorization: Bearer ${ACCESS_TOKEN}"
```

returns

```
[{"type": "bear", "confidence": "99.40%", "box": [6, 184, 352, 436]}, {"type": "bear
", "confidence": "72.66%", "box": [615, 219, 659, 279]}]
```


Live Streams or Recorded Video files
======================================
This is an image based object detection API. If you want to pass a video file or live stream,
take a look at the full example below.


Full Example
=============
Take a look at [stream.py](https://github.com/pliablepixels/mlapi/blob/master/examples/stream.py). This program reads any media source and/or webcam and invokes detection via the API gateway


Other Notes
============

- The first time you invoke a query, the ML engine inside will download weights/models and will take time. That will only happen once and from then on, it will be much faster

- Note that the server stores the images and the objects detected inside its `images/` folder. If you want the server to delete them after analysis add `&delete=true` to the query parameters.

Commit message:

Add fork link to README

README.md, after:

What
=====
An API gateway that you can install in your own server to do object, face and gender recognition.
Easy to extend to many/any other model. You can pass images as:
- a local file
- remote url

This can also be used as a remote face/recognition and object recognition server if you are using the ZoneMinder Event Server! (docs upcoming)

This is an example of invoking `python ./stream.py video.mp4` ([video courtesy of pexels](https://www.pexels.com/video/people-walking-by-on-a-sidewalk-854100/))

<img src="https://media.giphy.com/media/YQ4f1xXHMaDLF7AZMe/giphy.gif"/>


Why
=====
Wanted to learn how to write an API gateway easily. Object detection was a good use-case since I use it extensively for other things (like my event server). This is the first time I've used flask/jwt/tinydb etc. so its very likely there are improvements that can be made. Feel free to PR.

Tip of the Hat
===============
A tip of the hat to [Adrian Rosebrock](https://www.pyimagesearch.com/about/) to get me started. His articles are great.

Containerized Fork
==================
themoosman maintains a containerized fork of this [repo](https://github.com/themoosman/mlapi).  This fork runs as a container and has been refactored to a WSGI (NGINX + Gunicorn + Flask) application.

Install
=======
- It's best to create a virtual environment with python3, but not mandatory 
- You need python3 for this to run
- face recognition requires cmake/gcc/standard linux dev libraries installed (if you have gcc, you likely have everything else. You may need to install cmake on top of it if you don't already have it)

Then:
```
 git clone https://github.com/pliablepixels/mlapi
 cd mlapi
 sudo -H pip3 install -r requirements.txt
 ```
Note: You may need other typical ml support libs. Forgot which. Feel free to PR and extend requirements.txt

Note that this package also needs OpenCV which is not installed by the above step by default. This is because you may have a GPU and may want to use GPU support. If not, pip is fine. See [this page](https://zmeventnotification.readthedocs.io/en/latest/guides/hooks.html#opencv-install) on how to install OpenCV


Running
========
To run the server:
```
python3 ./mlapi.py -c mlapiconfig.ini
```

To invoke detection, you need to:

Server Side:
- Make sure the username and password are created. Use `python3 mlapi_adduser.py` for that

Client Side:

(General note: I use [httpie](https://httpie.org) for command line http requests. Curl, while powerful has too many quirks/oddities. That being said, given curl is everywhere, examples are in curl. See later for a programmatic way)

- Get an access token
```
curl -H "Content-Type:application/json" -XPOST -d '{"username":"<user>", "password":"<password>"}' "http://localhost:5000/api/v1/login"
```
This will return a JSON object like:
```
{"access_token":"eyJ0eX<many more characters>","expires":3600}
```

Now use that token like so:

```
export ACCESS_TOKEN=<that access token>
```

Object detection for a remote image (via url):

```
curl -H "Content-Type:application/json" -H "Authorization: Bearer ${ACCESS_TOKEN}" -XPOST -d "{\"url\":\"https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/c/c4/Anna%27s_hummingbird.jpg\"}" http://localhost:5000/api/v1/detect/object
```
returns:

```
[{"type": "bird", "confidence": "99.98%", "box": [433, 466, 2441, 1660]}]
```

Object detection for a local image:
```
curl  -H "Authorization: Bearer ${ACCESS_TOKEN}" -XPOST -F"file=@IMG_1833.JPG" http://localhost:5000/api/v1/detect/object -v
```

returns:
```
[{"type": "person", "confidence": "99.77%", "box": [2034, 1076, 3030, 2344]}, {"type": "person", "confidence": "97.70%", "box": [463, 519, 1657, 1351]}, {"type": "cup", "confidence": "97.42%", "box": [1642, 978, 1780, 1198]}, {"type": "dining table", "confidence": "95.78%", "box": [636, 1088, 2370, 2262]}, {"type": "person", "confidence": "94.44%", "box": [22, 718, 640, 2292]}, {"type": "person", "confidence": "93.08%", "box": [408, 1002, 1254, 2016]}, {"type": "cup", "confidence": "92.57%", "box":[1918, 1272, 2110, 1518]}, {"type": "cup", "confidence": "90.04%", "box": [1384, 1768, 1564, 2044]}, {"type": "bowl", "confidence": "83.41%", "box": [882, 1760, 1134, 2024]}, {"type": "person", "confidence": "82.64%", "box": [2112, 984, 2508, 1946]}, {"type": "cup", "confidence": "50.14%", "box": [1854, 1520, 2072, 1752]}]
```

Face detection for the same image above:

```
curl  -H "Authorization: Bearer ${ACCESS_TOKEN}" -XPOST -F"file=@IMG_1833.JPG" "http://localhost:5000/api/v1/detect/object?type=face"
```

returns:

```
[{"type": "face", "confidence": "52.87%", "box": [904, 1037, 1199, 1337]}]
```

Object detection on a live Zoneminder feed:
(Note that ampersands have to be escaped as `%26` when passed as a data parameter)

```
curl -XPOST  "http://localhost:5000/api/v1/detect/object?delete=false" -d "url=https://demo.zoneminder.com/cgi-bin-zm/nph-zms?mode=single%26maxfps=5%26buffer=1000%26monitor=18%26user=zmuser%26pass=zmpass"
-H "Authorization: Bearer ${ACCESS_TOKEN}"
```

returns

```
[{"type": "bear", "confidence": "99.40%", "box": [6, 184, 352, 436]}, {"type": "bear
", "confidence": "72.66%", "box": [615, 219, 659, 279]}]
```


Live Streams or Recorded Video files
======================================
This is an image based object detection API. If you want to pass a video file or live stream,
take a look at the full example below.


Full Example
=============
Take a look at [stream.py](https://github.com/pliablepixels/mlapi/blob/master/examples/stream.py). This program reads any media source and/or webcam and invokes detection via the API gateway


Other Notes
============

- The first time you invoke a query, the ML engine inside will download weights/models and will take time. That will only happen once and from then on, it will be much faster

- Note that the server stores the images and the objects detected inside its `images/` folder. If you want the server to delete them after analysis add `&delete=true` to the query parameters.
